now Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu has decided to reschedule a
highlevel delegation to Washington DC to
discuss Israel's plans for a ground
assault on the southern gazan city of
Rafa Netanyahu earlier withdrew from the
talks after the US decided not to veto a
United Nations security Council
resolution calling for a ceasefire in
Gaza more than 1 million cousins are
Sheltering in Rafa which is the last
remaining urban center not to have been
attacked
by Israeli Ground Forces Israeli air
strikes on the city overnight have
raised fears that a ground assault could
begin the aftermath of an air strike in
Rafa a now all too familiar scene
Rescuers digging bodies out of
rubble things were normal there's been
no trouble here the strikes just come at
random about 1.5 million people live
here after fleeing Israeli operations in
the North from Gaza City to hunis and
finally to Rafa the end of the line
where food and Medicine shortages
threaten an imminent famine as well as
disease outbreaks but it's unclear how
long people can stay or how safe they'll
be the marked areas on this map show
where Israel has been conducting ground
operations in Gaza with troops coming
close to Rafa but so far Israel has only
conducted air strikes here without
sending in ground troops elsewhere
Fierce ground fighting continues with
assaults on targets around Gaza City and
Han yunas
ongoing Israel's allies patience is
growing thin and both the US and Germany
have said that a ground incursion into
Rafa would be crossing a red
line US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin visited the region last week to
deliver that message uh it risks killing
more civilians it risks uh wreaking
greater Havoc with the provision of
humanitarian assistance it risks further
isolating Israel around the world and
jeopardizing its long-term security and
standing but Israel has been ignoring
these calls from its closest allies it
says it will fulfill its goal of
destroying Hamas and that means an
invasion of Rafa is necessary even at
the risk of a deeper Rift between Israel
and the
us we can't defeat Hamas without going
into Rafa I told secretary blinken I
hope to do that with the support of the
United States but if we need to we will
do it
alone Israel says it will move civilians
from Rafa into humanitarian Islands
elsewhere in Gaza but has released no
concrete
plans let's get more from DW
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
good morning Tanya I do want to talk to
you about Rafa but first what are the
reasons behind Benjamin Netanyahu
changing his mind now about sending a
security delegation to Washington to
discuss a rougher
offensive well I think um we can only
guess at this point uh what made this
turnab uh turnabout from prime minister
benami Netanyahu I mean initially it was
meant to be a protest about the uh un
Security Council resol resolution that
was not vetoed by the United States on
Wednesday he said after a visit by a
Republican senator that he wanted
actually to send a message uh to uh
Hamas but also it is discussed here um
while he was uh cancelling this visit uh
his defense minister y galland was
already in Washington was about to leave
to Washington they had also talks now
about rafar so it took out a bit the
weight of this decision to cancel uh
this high profile visit and we're
expecting you know two of his senior
officials of his cabinet uh to of of
this government to travel to Washington
sometime soon the US declined to veto a
un call for a seasar in Gaza where does
that leave relations between the US and
Israel well I mean depends who you ask
you know some analysts here see it as a
really serious crisis others Point more
to a crisis between uh the two uh
leaders that they're not seeing
obviously eye to eye on some of the uh
issues uh certainly uh what prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has also
acknowledged that the international pre
pressure has been stepped up but what uh
analysts here looking at is actually uh
one is the Diplomatic level obviously
but the other level is the more
practical level you know would the
United States would they actually slow
down for example the delivery of
ordinance or weapon weapons and that
doesn't seem to be uh the case and of
course also um we've heard from us they
do support Israel's right to defend
itself but they want to see a different
conduct of War as we heard also in the
report and what they want to talk about
uh in these talks in Washington is the
uh planned ground invasion of rafar they
want to hear from the Israelis what are
you going to do to protect civilians
that are Sheltering there we always talk
about Sheltering of course there are air
strikes and shellings going on as well
in rafar but they want to see what are
they going to do uh if a ground Invasion
happens to bring those people somewhat
to some kind of safety crucially Tanya
does this prevent Israel from launching
its offensive in
Rafa well I mean this is something to
ask the military um the we've heard it
time in time again from prime minister
Benyamin Netanyahu that this ground
Invasion into Rafa is absolutely
necessary to um basically to win the war
and he said uh there are still Hamas
battalions in the city that need to
needs to be that need to be destroyed so
um I have been talking also to Aid
workers to un officials here they're
expecting this to happen but we don't
know when and in in what way it will
happen we'll leave it there for the time
being but thanks so much for joining us
today DW correspondent Tanya K in
Jerusalem thanks so
much let's bring in military analyst
Marina Miron from Kings College London
Marina in view of the latest political
and Military developments do you expect
Israel to launch its offensive in Rafa
and if so
when good day well it is very possible
that Israel will actually launch its
ground operation in Rafa however we
don't know when it will happen because
on the one hand we have the UN Security
Council resolution which according to
article 25 of the UN Charter is binding
now the us abstained from the vote
however the United States said that some
um
of the points of this uh new resolution
it is in agreement with and the issue
here is that there are a lot of
civilians one and a half million
civilians a humanitarian crisis in Rafa
meaning that um Israeli Army should be
ensuring civilian safety before starting
its ground offensive and the US would
then assess um this plan in order to
protect civilians first before the
Israel armed forces can commence their
ground operation now how they will agree
on this plan where the civilians will be
moved can they be moved where where is
space in Gaza we know that it's very
difficult right now in terms of safety
in terms of humanitarian Aid to
civilians so there there is a likelihood
that Israel will start the ground
offensive in gasa in in Rafa however we
don't know when it will do so given this
plan and of course it doesn't want to
risk losing us support now Israel says
it cannot defeat Hamas without going
into Rafa if it does can it defeat Hamas
there or is this just the pipe
dream well we have to understand that
Israel has a capability with external
help in terms of uh its military to
defeat Hamas military
the question here is how long will it
take and at what cost not just in human
lives but also political cost
domestically and political cost
internationally therefore yes everything
is possible how probable it is is
another question and what kind of
Fallout will be um there for Netanyahu
to pick up in terms of uh explaining
things to the International Community
explaining things to his constituent
population who want the hostages
released so there is a divide in the
population one part wants the hostages
released more than the destruction of
Hamas and so all these questions need to
be answered and of course what happens
in Gaza after Hamas is defeated is it
livable who is going to reconstruct
it now what are the military challenges
in a ground operation specifically in
raak right
now well given the fact that it's so
packed with
civilians uh as I said one and a half
million and it's already suffering from
a humanitarian
crisis allegedly a lot of Hamas Fighters
would be hiding amongst the population
so the IDF would need to enter another
phase of urban Warfare which is
difficult because the enemy doesn't wear
Insignia they can be using um um
population as their Shields so it's very
difficult to distinguish the adversary
from the population so there is a risk
an increased risk of collateral damage
and it's a very slow operation because
you you you have to have good
intelligence and you're still facing a
multi-dimensional threat um given the
fact that there are still tunnels so you
will have to go literally from building
to building so it will be very slow very
painful also for the morale of the
soldiers conducting it and of course for
the international audience seeing
because there will be collateral damage
the question is how high will this
collateral damage be so um conducting
that operation while there are so many
civilians is of course difficult but how
do you filter out the civilians and just
leave Hamas in Rafa so is it even
possible so that's another dilemma that
the Israeli military will be facing if
they are to conduct a ground operation
before ensuring safety of at least a
portion of civilians uh who are now in
Rafa the military analyst Marina Miron
there Kings College London thank you
very much
Marina thank you for having
me